---
layout: post
title:  "Nimble"
date:   2013-09-23 20:42:46
categories: [iOS, Github]
---

What's Nimble? Nimble is the Core Data wrapper I have been working on for one of my never-completed personal project.  
If I had to describe Nimble with a very short description I would probably say: Core Data (and iCloud) made *nimble* and fast.

### Why

The answer is quite easy. I needed a Core Data wrapper with these features:

- Easy setup and finders (anyone said MagicalRecord?)
- Simple architecture with a main and a background context. A lot has been written about how much faster are 2 context rather than parent+children. Read [here](http://floriankugler.com/blog/2013/4/29/concurrent-core-data-stack-performance-shootout) and [here](http://floriankugler.com/blog/2013/5/11/backstage-with-nested-managed-object-contexts) if you're interested
- iOS 7 and iCloud ready (but still compatible)

### Features

It has all the features I (and probably you) need from a Core Data wrapper.

Easy setup of the core data stack

    [NimbleStore nb_setupStore:&error];
    // OR
    [NimbleStore nb_setup_iCloudStore:&error]

Easy savers for main and background thread

    [NimbleStore nb_saveInBackground:^(NBContextType contextType) {
      Book *book = [Book nb_createInContextOfType:contextType];
      book.name = @"Best book ever";
    }];

And a lot of other shortcuts like creators:

    [YourModelObject nb_createInContextOfType:NBMainContext initializingPropertiesWithDictionary:@{
        @"name" : @"Marco" ,
        @"surname" : @"Sero"
    }];

and finders + fetchers:

    [NimbleStore nb_saveInBackground:^(NBContextType contextType) {
      Book *book = [Book nb_findFirstInContext:contextType];
      book.name = @"updated name";
    }];

    NSFetchedResultsController *fetchedResultsController = [Book nb_fetchAllGroupedBy:@"author" withPredicate:nil sortedBy:@"name" ascending:YES delegate:self];

### What's next

Well, there's a lot of stuff still to be done and it needs to be used in a real app with real world problems to spot big issues (performances and sync conflicts).  
A todo list and the source code can be found on [GitHub](https://github.com/MarcoSero/Nimble). Please feel free to have a look and post any issue you could find.